README.md, before:

Click, copy "hist.sh" above, then paste, prepend the Bash functions inside to `~/.bashrc` file    

Tidying up Bash commands history by having good control in removing certain line(s) specified by number(s) or range or by a string segment lying in a history line.   

simply type `h` then it'll show the latest 25 lines of shell commands e.g:   
```
$ h   
  367  pushd --help   
  368  pushd -n debian/   
  369  pushd  build/   
  370  debuild -i -uc -us -b   
  371  ls debuild*   
  372  ls -hs   
  373  pushd ~   
  374  rm .config/autostart-scripts/autostart.sh   
  375  popd   
  377  cd  
  378  cd debian/   
  379  cat -n install   
Next 25? Up/Down: to earlier/later, [-]n[-][n] erase by range, Enter: out. Else: as string to erase 
```
- Up key, will show continuation of line 367 downwardly to less line number by 25 lines if it is 1st line, it will wrap around showing the latest line to its next ones
- Down key, will show next 25 lines, if reaches the latest, it shows beginning of history line again i.e. it will wrap around   
- Enter key will go out back to shell prompt   
- put a number such as 367, it will remove line 367, or `367 371-373` or `367 373-371` to remove lines 367, 371, 372, 373 (reverse range boundary numbers doesn't matter). Note the requirement: A one line **multiple numbers/ranges values must be in ascending order** for any line range formats (e.g. --3 is less than --7, so on) otherwise it'd delete erronously, however the output is always in its reverse i.e. descending order. If the range upper number is the last history one it can be omitted e.g. `371-`it will remove lines 371, 372, ...379   
- for the same purpose above can be put as `371=2`. It means 371 and 2 lines succeding it i.e. 371-373 while `371=-3` means 371 and the 3 lines preceding it i.e. 368-371    
- put in such `[-]-number[-number]`, it will delete the number ordered from the end (reverse order line number), or if the dash is two, the last number lines, all are relative to lines list being shown then. For example:   
- put a dash and a number e.g. `-5`, will remove the 5th line ordered from the last of lines being shown. A single dash alone `-` is short for `-1` to remove the last line    
- likewise above with appending `=` and a number: `-5=3`, is to remove the 5th line ordered from the last, also including the next 3 lines, and `-5=-3` is to remove the 5th line ordered from the last, also the 3 lines preceding it. Omitting the number `-5=` means the number is 1, so equivalent to `-5=1`    
- put two dash in a row then number: `--5`, will remove the last 5 lines relative to the last lines being shown.   
- likewise above with addition -number to except the last that number lines, e.g. `--5-2` remove the last 5 lines but the latest 2 lines, `--5-` will remove the last 5 lines but the last line   
- or put anything else, it'll be treated as the characters of substring of a command line in hisory as long as it has at least 3 characters. Any history command line having that string will be searched and printed before being removed. Now if the left/right end is made adjacent with space, that end will be anchored as the first/last string to search, so surrounding it with spaces will turn it to be exact string to match instead of substring   
- likewise above but it has only 1 or 2 printable characters, it will be assumed to find this string as exact i.e. whole of the line. Alternatively it can be made as a substring search if it's surrounded by space so the exact opposite of above     
- if input character with `...` (three period in a row) it becomes just OS shell `*` wildcard character    
- if input character with `.` (single period) it becomes just OS shell `?` wildcard character while literal periode is input with `\.`     
- Do all these finely as it can behave as the shell prompt function (it's well termed as `readline`) by preceding it with space first

If one already knew the number or the searched string, then just put directly in shell/terminal prompt to delete it such as:   
`$ h 371-375 367`   
`$ cd /home`

It'b be also as history alias i.e.

`$ h --help`   
shows history command's helpful reference

`$ h -r`   
append to current history from file ~/.bash_history   

Addition to history options, there is:   

`$ h -cr`   
reload the history from file `~/.bash_history`
(clean up the current history then do the append previous above)   

Except a mere `h` cannot be as mere `history` command itself to list entire numbered commands, as typing `h` will get into this interactive history tidying so it needs a period following it:    
`$ h .`   

If quit by saving a modified history, it automatically cleans up every empty or space only content line   

Just do **h -w** to ensure it saved in `~/.bash_history` after tidying up before exit the terminal

Commit message:

fix, add limitation 17 lines beyond current list shown

README.md, after:

Click, copy "hist.sh" above, then paste, prepend the Bash functions inside to `~/.bashrc` file    

Tidying up Bash commands history by having good control in removing certain line(s) specified by number(s) or range or by a string segment lying in a history line.   

simply type `h` then it'll show the latest 25 lines of shell commands e.g:   
```
$ h   
  367  pushd --help   
  368  pushd -n debian/   
  369  pushd  build/   
  370  debuild -i -uc -us -b   
  371  ls debuild*   
  372  ls -hs   
  373  pushd ~   
  374  rm .config/autostart-scripts/autostart.sh   
  375  popd   
  377  cd  
  378  cd debian/   
  379  cat -n install   
Next 25? Up/Down: to earlier/later, [-]n[-][n] erase by range, Enter: out. Else: as string to erase 
```
- Up key, will show continuation of line 367 downwardly to less line number by 25 lines if it is 1st line, it will wrap around showing the latest line to its next ones
- Down key, will show next 25 lines, if reaches the latest, it shows beginning of history line again i.e. it will wrap around   
- Enter key will go out back to shell prompt   
- put a number such as 367, it will remove line 367, or `367 371-373` or `367 373-371` to remove lines 367, 371, 372, 373 (reverse range boundary numbers doesn't matter). Note the requirement: A one line **multiple numbers/ranges values must be in ascending order** for any number range format (such above and e.g. --3 is less than --7 etc) otherwise it'd delete erronously, however the output is always in its reverse i.e. descending order. If the range upper number is the last one it can be omitted so `371-`it will remove lines 371, 372, ...379   
- for the same purpose above can be put as `371=2`. It means 371 and 2 lines succeding it i.e. 371-373 while `371=-3` means 371 and the 3 lines preceding it i.e. 368-371    
- all the above number range can be given out of the currently shown lines as long as max by 17 lines downwardly less than the lowest one or upwardly more than the highest one being shown now. This in order to prevent overlooking   
- put in such `[-]-number[-number]`, it will delete the number ordered from the end (reverse order line number), or if the dash is two, the last number lines, all are relative to lines list being shown then. For example:   
- put a dash and a number e.g. `-5`, will remove the 5th line ordered from the last of lines being shown. A single dash alone `-` is short for `-1` to remove the last line    
- likewise above with appending `=` and a number: `-5=3`, is to remove the 5th line ordered from the last, also including the next 3 lines, and `-5=-3` is to remove the 5th line ordered from the last, also the 3 lines preceding it. Omitting the number `-5=` means the number is 1, so equivalent to `-5=1`    
- put two dash in a row then number: `--5`, will remove the last 5 lines relative to the last lines being shown.   
- likewise above with addition -number to except the last that number lines, e.g. `--5-2` remove the last 5 lines but the latest 2 lines, `--5-` will remove the last 5 lines but the last line   
- or put anything else, it'll be treated as the characters of substring of a command line in hisory as long as it has at least 3 characters. Any history command line having that string will be searched and printed before being removed. Now if the left/right end is made adjacent with space, that end will be anchored as the first/last string to search, so surrounding it with spaces will turn it to be exact string to match instead of substring   
- likewise above but it has only 1 or 2 printable characters, it will be assumed to find this string as exact i.e. whole of the line. Alternatively it can be made as a substring search if it's surrounded by space so the exact opposite of above     
- if input character with `...` (three period in a row) it becomes just OS shell `*` wildcard character    
- if input character with `.` (single period) it becomes just OS shell `?` wildcard character while literal periode is input with `\.`     
- Do all these finely as it can behave as the shell prompt function (it's well termed as `readline`) by preceding it with space first

If one already knew the number or the searched string, then just put directly in shell/terminal prompt to delete it such as:   
`$ h 371-375 367`   
`$ cd /home`

It'b be also as history alias i.e.

`$ h --help`   
shows history command's helpful reference

`$ h -r`   
append to current history from file ~/.bash_history   

Addition to history options, there is:   

`$ h -cr`   
reload the history from file `~/.bash_history`
(clean up the current history then do the append previous above)   

Except a mere `h` cannot be as mere `history` command itself to list entire numbered commands, as typing `h` will get into this interactive history tidying so it needs a period following it:    
`$ h .`   

If quit by saving a modified history, it automatically cleans up every empty or space only content line   

Just do **h -w** to ensure it saved in `~/.bash_history` after tidying up before exit the terminal
